Depth first search on like a breath first search is a little bit different.
The search follows one branch of the tree down as many levels as possible until the target notice found
or the end is reached.
When the search can go on any further.
It continues at the nearest ancestor with an unexplored child.
Let me show you.
We start off with nine.
Then we go to six.
Then we go to one and we've reached a leaf node.
There's no more children.
So we go back up to 6 to our ancestor and then see if there's any more unexplored children in this case
we haven't gone to four.
So let's go back up to four.
And now we go up because there's no more children all the way up to 9 and say All right let's go to
there right now we go to 12 then 34 and then come back up and then search 45 as well.
Now depth first search has a lower memory requirement then breadth first search because it's not necessary
to store all the child pointers at each level.
Something that we'll see when we actually coded the idea with that first search is that we want to go
as deep as possible into a graph.
Usually starting from the left side and then start going to the right until the traversal of the tree
is done as the name suggests we go.
Depth first that is deep.
First verse says breath deafer search looks something like this.
Once again we go all the way down come back up all the way down come back up all the way down.
Come back up all the way down as you can see going deep first.
Then keep going to the right and I like to think of death.
First search was like walking through a maze right we're going as far as we can and when we hit a dead
end well you turn back around and go to the next point where you can make perhaps a left to a writer
until you get to the end of the maze or the maze ends.
So if we go back to our code and we look at breath first search we did here BRAF first search.
What about depth first search.
How would that look.
Well from what we know and Hint hint there's going to be different variations of deafer search coming
up.
But from what we know we would start off with nine then four then one then go back up to four and then
find six go back up find 20 go to the left 15 and go to the right one 70.
So our list is a little bit different than breath for search.
We have different orders but why do we have these two ways of exploring a tree or a graph.
What's the pros and cons.
And up until now I've just been talking but you might not understand why one is better than the other.
And before we implement this into code I want to go over the pros and cons of each.
So let's do that in the next video.